you
hi there in this lesson I'll talk to you
about describing line graphs it's a task
you might be required to answer as part
of writing task 1 this task is designed
to test your ability to identify and
describe compare and make conclusions
about the most relevant information
displayed in a line graph these four
steps apply the formula you learned in
the formula lesson first I'll show you
what this task looks like after that
I'll talk about the key features of a
line graph before summarizing I will
briefly talk about applying the formula
following this lesson you need to
complete a short practice exercise it's
really important that you do the
practice exercise before watching the
methods lesson this will help you to get
the most out of the methods lesson so
let's get started identifying key
features of the line graph task if the
writing task one question you are given
is to describe a line graph you will
have 20 minutes to write a 150 word
description of the graph the first thing
you'll see is a box of text for example
this text box contains two important
pieces of information a brief
description of the line graph and
instructions as to what you must
describe under the instruction box you
will see a line graph like this critical
features you must identify this task is
designed to test your ability to
identify the most important and relevant
information and trends in a graph chart
table or diagram you're required to give
a well
organized overview of it using accurate
language to do this it's best to step
through a process however to do that we
need to identify some critical features
of line graphs two critical features of
all graphs you'll see are called the
vertical and horizontal axes in this
example the vertical axis shows a list
of numbers corresponding to a label
number of books read the horizontal axis
is not labeled but we can see 2011-2012
etc which we can assume to be years a
third critical feature is the key or
legend the key identifies the lines you
will see on the graph in our example
there are only two lines one for men the
other for women so the legend men and
women is not very complicated describing
line graphs by identifying the axes and
the key we already have the core
information we need to describe the
graph so now is a good time to go back
to the instructions you can see that the
instructions tell you to summarize the
information by selecting and reporting
the main features and make comparisons
where relevance we can break this down
into tasks that align with the formula
basically it's asking us to identify
what the image shows or is about
describe the main trends compare the
data and make a brief conclusion as we
have already identified the main
features we now need to describe the
trends trends describe and compare the
line trends
line graphs and bar charts are useful
for showing trends so your answer will
need to discuss the trends that are
shown in your graph a trend is a
movement of data in a general direction
over time each line in a line graph has
its own trend these trends can be upward
or downward or they might remain steady
an important part of your answer will be
to describe and compare the trends for
example the line representing men
trended upwards shown by the Green Line
it steadily increased over the entire
period in comparison the number of books
read by women increased for the first
two years of the study before trending
downwards in the final year your ability
to present this information in written
form is essential to achieving a top
grade we'll talk about how to organize
and write the description in more detail
in the methods lesson concluding
sentence remember to finish off with the
concluding sentence where you give an
overall summary of the line graph now
let's summarize this lesson summary so
let's summarize now if you're given a
line graph question in writing task 1
you will be required to do the following
things you need to identify the task ie
this is a line graph task you need to
describe the trends upwards downwards
fluctuating or stable next you need to
compare the data taken from the line
graph and finally you need to conclude
with a summary this gives you a brief
overview of the task as well as a
general plan of attack in answering it
we will find out this plan in more
detail in the methods lesson you will
see after completing the practice
exercise thanks for watching